How Humans Visualise Data
----------------------------------

Visualisation can improve understanding, memory, and decision making.

We must create effective and engaging visualisations that are appropriate to the data.

Data is abstract, and represents trends, numbers, and relationships.

By translating data into visual elements, we bring abstract concepts to life.

Visual attributes used in data visualisation are things like:
	> Position
	> Length
	> Size
	> Shape
	> Colour

It is important to follow design principles grounded in human perception when making visualisations.

Different kinds of data need different kinds of visualisations:
	> Nominal can be used to compare categories or count.
	> Ordinal can be used to rank things, or to compare orders.
	> Interval can be used to compare differences.
	> Ratio can be used to compare ratios and show magnitude.

A data dimension is one channel of data. A visual property is a characteristic that can be seen, like colour, size,
or location. Encoding is the visual property applied to a dimension that encodes information in a visual medium.

We should use the fewest visual encodings necessary to communicate the message clearly. Every visual encoding
demands attention and memory, and if an encoding does not add new information, it should not be used.

For example, in a bar chart, the information we need is already being encoded in the height of the bars. If we made
each bar a different colour, it wouldn't add much.

A person's memory can be compared to a computer-based info system. It is a set of processes used to encode, store,
and retrieve information over different periods of time.

Encoding is the input of information into the memory system.

Often times, words and their meanings are organised in our memory. For example, dog, horse, and cat, are all animals.

This shared meaning helps with faster recall and recognition, and meaning-based grouping is much easier to remember
than a random list of objects.

Perceptions will differ based on stimulus. They are interpreted, allowing the brain to extract knowledge.

We have sensory memory, short term memory, and long term memory. The main kinds of encoding are acoustic, semantic,
and visual.

Retrieval is the act of getting information out of memory storage and back into conscious awareness.

Cognitive Load is the amount of mental effort required to process and understand information.

There is the following types:
	> Intrinsic - The inherent difficulty of the task or info.
	> Extraneous - Unnecessary complexity that distracts from learning.
	> Germane - The kind used to integrate new information into existing knowledge.

Visual perception is selective. Our eyes are drawn to familiar patterns, and our working memory is limited. We want
more visual perception and less cognition.









