Enterprise App Development
-------------------------------------

50% Exam, 50% CA Grade.
	> 30% Class Assessment, 20% Project.

The exam will be a written exam at the end of the semester, and weekly labs.
	> Those labs make up the 30% class assessment grade.
	> There will be lab content, plus a test at the end.

The final project will be about NODE and AJAX.

Lab activities need to be completed IN the lab.

If we miss one lab, that lab's grade will be the average mark of our top 7 lab grades.

A lot of this module is about the backend, we will learn about NODE, authentication, web tokens, etc.

JavaScript is a dynamic scripting language.

It is a high level language that executes at runtime.

It is dynamically typed, meaning that variables need only support operations performed on them at runtime.

TypeScript is a strict syntactical superset of JavaScript, and adds optional static typing to the language.

Originally it was only executed client-side, by the web browser.

Now, Node.js allows you to run JavaScript on the server-side.

Some databases like MongoDB and CouchDB also use JavaScript.

JavaScript displays interactive content, performs animations of page elements, and validates input from a form
before submitting to a server.

It can also load new page content, or submit data to the server via AJAX, without reloading the page.

It transmits information about user browsing activities too, like web analytics and ad tracking.

Script code is embedded in the web page, which means its viewable to the world.

For security reasons, scripts are limited in what they can do.

For example, they can't directly access a client's hard drive.

Since it is design to run on any machine, scripts also don't contain platform-specific commands.

The user can also block JavaScript, so input validation must be performed on the server too.

JavaScript is a case-sensitive language, can change HTML content, attributes, and styles, and can show and hide HTML.

JavaScript can be written inline in HTML using the <script> tag, but it can also be written in its own file and loaded
by the HTML.

To use an external script like this, the script tag is also used, but instead of having JS code in it, it has an
"src" attribute which contains the filepath to the JS script file.

To access a HTML element from JavaScript, you can use the document.getElementById(id) method.

The innerHTML property defines the HTML content.

The assignment operator, "=", assigns a value to a variable. Variables are defined with the "var" keyword.

A variable declared without a value will have the "undefined" value.

If you re-declare a JS variable, it will not lose its value.

If you assign a value to a variable that has not yet been declared, it will automatically be a global variable.

Global variables should be avoided as they can be overwritten by other scripts.

JS has dynamic types, meaning the same variable can be used to store a string, a number, a Boolean, or Null.

JS numbers can be written with or without decimals, and the Number.isInteger() method can be used to tell if a number
is an integer or not. The isNaN() method can be used to verify if a value is not a number.

Strings are text declared inside quotes, and Booleans are defined simply as true or false.

The equality operator, the double equal sign ==, is used to compare values. The interpreter implicitly tries to
convert the values before comparing them.

The identity operator, the triple equals ===, does not convert the values before comparing.

Code in JS uses functions and events. Code can be made to execute when the page loads, or when another event occurs,
such as when a user clicks a button.

If we put JavaScript code inside a function, we can call that function when an event occurs.

Arrow functions allow a short syntax for writing function expressions.

You don't need the function or return keywords, or the curly brackets.

Arrow functions do not have their own version of the "this" keyword.

They are not well suited for defining object methods.

Arrow functions are not hoisted. They must be defined before they are used.

Using const is safer than using var, because a function expression is always a constant value.

You can only omit the return keyword and the curly brackets if the function is a single statement.

For example:

	const x = (x, y) => {return x * y};


An event handler is a predefined JS property of an object, in most cases an element in the document, that is used
to handle an event on a web page.

An event is something that happens when the viewer performs some sort of action, such as clicking a mouse button,
moving the mouse over a link, etc.

To use an event handler, you can add it as an additional attribute to a HTML tag.

The only different between an event handler attribute and a HTML attribute is that you can add JS code inside an
event handler attribute rather than just an attribute value.

If the code you want to use is long, you may wish to put it in a function.

You can also tie an event to an element with the script code, with document.getElementById(), for example.



















