IoT 2023-34
--------------------------

Q1. a) A device-to-device architecture is one in which devices connect directly to each other, with no cloud, server,
or gateway in between. This kind of architecture is used for a mesh network, wherein nodes connect directly, dynamically,
and non-hierarchically to as many others as possible, to achieve maximum network coverage.

b) Device-to-cloud and device-to-gateway. For the first, devices connect directly to the cloud, or a backend server,
which assists with communication and processing, and any other heavy tasks. The second is similar, except devices
communicate with a gateway, which then communicates on their behalf with the cloud.

c) Advantages are redundancy and efficiency for routing and data transit, ease of network entry, and resource sharing.
Disadvantages are increased complexity, higher power consumption on devices, and lessened ability for complex processing.



Q2. a) Arduino:
		> Affordability: Very cheap.
		> Extensibility: Hardware functionality can be expanded with addon boards called shields.
		> Range of Models: Huge variety available, provides developers with flexibility.

       Raspberry Pi:
		> High Performance: Single-board computer, can handle more intensive tasks.
		> Full OS Environment: Runs a full Linux OS.
		> Integrated High-Speed Connection: Robust built-in networking.

b) I. SoC is an integrated chip that combines all of the key components of a computer system, such as CPU, memory,
wireless connectivity. These are key components in modern IoT devices.

II. A capacitor is like a miniature rechargeable battery. It builds up a small charge and then releases it.

III. An inductor is like a capacitor, except that it stores the stored energy in a magnetic field instead of electrical.

IV. A motor controller is used to control motors on IoT devices, and allows for small and delicate movements.


c) Pulse-width modulation effectively works by turning a device on and off really quickly. Using digital output pins,
the only outputs can be 1 or 0, effectively 100% or 0%. With PWM, a device can be switched between 0 and 100 rapidly,
allowing it to simulate lower outputs by the time that the system is at 100. For example, if it spends only 1/3 of the
time at 100%, it can simulate 33%. The duty cycle is effectively the percentage of the time that the device is at 100%,
measured by (pulse width/total period)*100%. Frequency is how often or how quickly it switches back and forth between 100%
and 0%. Higher frequencies can give a smoother operation.



Q3. a) I. WiFI      II. Internet Protocol or IP      III. TCP or UDP      IV. MQTT

b) Fog computing contrasts from cloud computing in that it is decentralized. It uses edge devices to carry out a substantial
amount of computing, rather than a central server or datacentre. It is intended for distributed computing where
numerous peripheral devices are connected to a cloud. As much processing as possible is done onboard rather than remotely.

c) I. A broker is a piece of software that sits in the middle of an MQTT setup, it takes messages from publishers, and
sends those messages to the subscribers which have subscribed to the topic of that message.

II. A publisher gathers or generates the information that is being sent. It assigns each message a topic, and sends it
to the broker.

III. The subscriber subscribes to topics that it wants to receive relevant messages for, and is then sent those messages
by the broker.



Q.4 a) 

b) Linear discriminant analysis, principle component analysis, autoencoders.

c) Statistical correlation is the measure of mathematical similarity between two variables. It can be used in IoT to
measure the similarities between sensor readings on multiple devices, for example.



Q5. 
