Fundamentals of IoT
------------------------------------
Modern hardware is cheap, and powerful!

Many devices these days, even ones you wouldn't think, have computers in them.

These computers are often more powerful than you would think.

This includes things like microwaves, cars, and fridges.

Because of this, devices like this can increasingly be connected to the internet.

This is where we get the term Internet of Things.

The devices we think of commonly when it comes to things like this are an Amazon Echo or Google Home.

A good example we might not think of is electronic road sings. These are normally controlled remotely via internet or
some other networking technology.

This course will cover low end, cheap hardware platforms like Raspberry Pi and Arduino.

We will learn to program these platforms and interface with other hardware.

We will learn to offload compute-intensive tasks to external services (like datacenters), and also data visualisation.

There are also bad things about IoT devices:
	> Security
	> Privacy
	> Fragmentation and vendor lock-in
	> Cost
	> Environmental concerns

This will be different from what we've seen so far in that:
	> Limited computer resources
	> Closer to the metal
	> Unusual input and output types

Assessment will be:
	> 60% written exam
	> 5 marked labs, each worth 8 marks, for a total 40%
	> Limitations on bringing hardware off campus means no assignment

An electronic circuit is a bunch of wires connecting components.

At each point and wire, we have two values to care about:
	> Volts (V) measured in Volts.
	> Current (I) measured in Amperes, or amps.

These two can be described with an analogy of hydraulics, or water flowing through a pipe.

In this analogy:
	> Voltage is the pressure of the water, or how hard it's being pushed.
	> Current is the speed of the water, or how quickly it's moving.

Voltage and Current are not the same thing. A pipe (or wire) with more resistance will require more pressure, or voltage,
to achieve the same speed, or current.

All connected parts along a wire have the same voltage and current.

For the purposes of voltage and current, a wire is like one point.

There are a few common electronic components that are used frequently.

One is the resistor. This is like a speed bump, and reduces the voltage and current of power flowing through it.

The degree of resistance (R) is measured in Ohms.

One ohm is a tiny amount of resistance.

Resistors are extremely common in electronic circuits.

As they resist electricity, they tend to heat up.

Electronic heating elements work under basically this principle.

Batteries, or voltage sources, generate electricity with a fixed voltage.

A battery will basically always generate, or try to generate, the same voltage.

These use a chemical reaction to generate their voltage (unlike something like a generator).

The wide line on a circuit diagram is the positive, and the narrow is the negative (anode and cathode).

We say that the voltage on the positive side is 5 volts, and the voltage on the negative is 0 volts.

This is because technically, though we described voltage as "pressure", it's more like difference in pressure.

A capacitor is sort of like a tiny rechargeable battery: they store a small amount of electricity for a period of time.

They use an electrical field to store power.

The amount it can store is called the capacitance (C) measured in Farads.

One farad is a huge amount of capacitance.

An inductor is very similar to a capacitor, in that it does a similar job. It functions differently though, in that
the energy is stored in a magnetic field, rather than an electric one.

Unlike capacitors, they don't stop the flow of electricity when fully charged.

The inductance of an inductor (L) is measured in Henries.

Inductors are essentially a coil of wire, taking advantage of the magnetic field generated by electricity flowing through
a length of coiled wire.

Electric motors and electromagnets work via a similar principle.

A diode is an electronic device that only allows electricity to flow through it in one direction.

The light emitting variant, the LED, is very common in modern electronics.

Diodes are semiconductor devices, made of silicon. Transistors, which computer technology is heavily dependent upon, are
essentially two diodes stuck together.

A current source is like a battery, but they generate a fixed current instead of a fixed voltage. They are infrequently
used in real electronics, but are important in theory.

Transformers are used to change the voltage of electricity.

A transformer is basically two or more inductors wrapped around a core, usually made of something like iron.

The magnetic fields interact with each other and with the core to induce a different voltage on the other side.

The most common example of a device that contains a transformer is a charger, and they're quite physically large.

Additionally, they only operate on A/C.

An A/C to D/C converter, also called a rectifier, operates basically using a diode and a capacitor.

The capacitor is used to keep the voltage a fixed rate while one of the two directions wouldn't be getting through
the diode.

Building intuition about how components behave under different circumstances can be useful.

The resistance of several resistors in series is equal to the sum of the resistance of the individual resistors.

The resistance of resistors in parallel is far more complex to calculate. The resistance does end up combined, but is
not the sum. It is the reciprocal of the products of the reciprocals.

In other words, it is 1 divided by the products of 1 divided by each resistance.

This can be used to achieve a very specific resistance that might not be able to be bought directly.

Capacitors work the other way around to resistors: the capacitance in parallel is the sum of the individuals, and the
capacitance in series is the reciprocal of the products of the reciprocals of the individuals.

An RLC circuit is a circuit where R stands for resistance, L stands for inductance, and C stands for capacitance.

In such a circuit, f = 1/2*pi*(sqrt(LC)). The circuit features a rapidly flipping direction of electricity, and the F in
this equation represents the frequency of the flip.

This is not a perpetual emotion machine, as a little power is lost each cycle to things like heat.

A circuit fragment seen often is the voltage divider. It almost works like a design pattern in software engineering.

It is used to achieve a very specific voltage.

This is like a transformer, except that it uses D/C instead of A/C.

Two resistors in series are connected to the voltage input, which are then connected back around to the battery negative.

In between the two resistors, we have a voltage output, which leads to the rest of the circuit.

The voltage of VOut is dependent on the voltage of vIn, and the resistance of the two resistors.

The output voltage is equal to the resistance of the second resistor, divided by the sum of the two resistors, multiplied by the input voltage.









