System Architectures
---------------------------------

Large scale systems are common in modern software development.

We can think of Google, Facebook, YouTube, and other services.

Although few systems grow this big, it is important to design systems in such a way that they can scale.

Systems on the level of Google or TikTok would qualify as Ultra Large Scale Systems, or ULSS.

This is used in fields like CS, software engineering, and systems engineering to refer to systems with unprecedented:
	> Amounts of hardware.
	> Lines of code.
	> Numbers of users.
	> Volumes of data.

Systems analysis is a related field, concerned with identifying the goals and functionality of processes to create
systems that can help achieve them.

Often, this involves breaking a system into parts that interact to accomplish a purpose, also known as stepwise refinement.

Software engineering is another related field, the branch of engineering focused on software applications and
systems.

A complex system is a system composed of many interacting components.

These systems are intrinsically difficult to model due to the complexity of the interactions of the components.

They often exhibit emergent behaviour.

Because IoT devices are often small and low-end, they are often insufficient for running any kind of complex code.

We can get around this by outsourcing computation to an external system or environment.

Therefore, it is useful to have some knowledge about how to categorise basic architectural patterns.

The first architecture we can look at is device-to-cloud. In this architecture, IoT devices outsource the heavy
processing that they can't perform themselves to a more powerful machine somewhere in the cloud.

A variant of this is device-to-gateway, wherein IoT devices communicate with an intermediary gateway, which then
connects to the cloud device or devices that run the code.

A mesh network, or simply meshnet, is a local area network topology in which the infrastructure nodes, i.e. bridges,
switches, and other infrastructure devices, connect directly, dynamically, and non-hierarchically to as many other
nodes as possible.

In this setup, they cooperate with one another to efficiently route data to and from clients.

The idea in a mesh network is that the number of routes through the network is maximised, and devices can join
and leave the network really easily.

For example, several devices might be able to share the internet connection of only one device, by routing traffic
through a mesh network.

A communication protocol is the way an IoT device can talk to the cloud.

The choice of protocol is very important - for example, it can have a major impact on performance and security.

Developing your own protocol is possible, but often frowned upon, because it's usually good to keep to a standard,
and prewritten protocols often have existing implementations to use.

There are two main protocols used in IoT. Those are REST/RESTful APIs, and MQTT.

REST stands for Representational State Transfer.

It is a protocol commonly used in both web development and IoT. It is a stateless protocol, and makes use of the
client/server model.

It runs on top of existing, common technologies, typical examples of which would be:
	> JSON to serialise messages.
	> HTTPS to transmit them.

Essentially, with REST:
	> You talk to the server by sending JSON objects via HTTP.
	> The server will return JSON objects in its response.
	> The protocol is connectionless/stateless.

Because the protocol is stateless, you need to re-authenticate each time, because the server won't remember you.

The connectionless nature of REST allows for caching.

REST is commonly used with load-balancing, since it is a good fit for this.

A uniform interface allows components to evolve independently of each other.

It can use a trick called code-on-demand, where a server can send JS code to a client, to extend client-side
computation dynamically.

MQTT is another protocol, which stands for Message Queue Telemetry Transport.

It was originally developed for satellite communications, and is now commonly used for IoT.

It works a bit like a WhatsApp group or mailing list - it allows messages to be sent over a network between peer
machines, facilitated by a central server.

However, communication is generally one-way - one member of the group sends messages, and others just read them.

MQTT technology has a few different kinds of participant:
	> Broker - The central server running the service.
	> Topic - A single MQTT channel, like a WhatsApp group.
	> Publisher - The client in a topic that receives a messages.

With cloud computing, most processing occurs on a centralized server. This could be on-premises or run remotely.
















