Advanced Security Flashcard Study
----------------------------------------
> The first answer to every question is my own attempt.
- The second answer to each question is the correct flashcard answer.


In the CIA Triad, what does Confidentiality assure?
	> Confidentiality assures that information is not accessed by anyone who is not authorised.
	- It assures that private or confidential information is not made available or disclosed to unauthorized
	  individuals.



In the CIA triad of security, what does Integrity assure?
	> Integrity assures that private or confidential information is not altered or changed in any way by unauthorized
	  individuals. This includes instances where the data itself is not changed, but is repeated or stopped.
	- It assures that information and programs are changed only in a specified and authorized manner.



In the CIA triad of security, what does Availability assure?
	> Availability ensures that private data or information is always readily accessible to authorized individuals,
	  and is not rendered inaccessible by system downtime or service issues.
	- It assures that systems work promptly and service is not denied to authorized users.



What is the primary characteristic of a passive security attack?
	> The primary characteristic is that no changes are made to the information, data, or system, leaving these kinds
	  of attacks very hard to detect.
	- It attempts to learn or make use of information from the system but does not affect system resources.



Name the two types of passive security attacks.
	> Eavesdropping and Wiretapping.
	- The two types are "release of message contents" and "traffic analysis".



What is the primary characteristic of an active security attack?
	> It attempts to make use of or disrupt system resources or data.
	- It attempts to alter system resources or affect their operation.



What type of active attack involves one entity pretending to be another?
	> Masquerade attack.
	- Masquerade.



The active attack that involves the passive capture of a data unit and its subsequent retransmission to produce an
unauthorized effect is known as _________ ?
	> Retransmission attack.
	- Replay.



Which active attack involves altering, delaying, or reordering a legitimate message to produce an unauthorized effect?
	> Reorder attack.
	- Modification of messages.



What is a "Denial of Service" (DoS) attack?
	> An attack wherein attackers attempt to overwhelm the system and use up resources so that the service no longer
	  works correctly for legitimate users.
	- An active attack that prevents or inhibits the normal use or management of communications facilities.



In classical encryption, how does a Rail Fence Cipher work.
	> I have no idea.
	- The plaintext is written down as a sequence of diagonals and then read off as a sequence of rows.



What is the defining characteristic of a One-Time Pad cipher that makes it theoretically unbreakable.
	> Keys are single-use, a new one is created every time making them completely unpredictable.
	- It uses a random key that is as long as the message and only used once.



What are the two practical difficulties of using a One-Time Pad?
	> Generating new keys every single time is both time and resource-intensive, and the recipient doesn't know
	  each new key that is generated.
	- The difficulties include the secure distribution of the key and ensuring the key is truly random and only
	  used once.



How does a Row Transposition Cipher encrypt a message?
	> It transposes the rows.
	- The message is written into a rectangle row by row, and then read off column by column in an order determined
	  by a key.



In a Row Transposition Cipher, what constitutes the key?
	> The column order to read from.
	- The key is the permutation of the column order used to read the ciphertext.



What is the core principle of the Vigenère Cipher?
	> To be more secure than a cipher like the Ceaser cipher by using a key that is multiple letters long, and thus
	  shifting each letter in the plaintext by a different amount.
	- It is a polyalphabetic substitution cipher that uses a repeating keyword to select which Ceaser cipher to apply
	  to each letter of the plaintext.



What is the primary goal of diffusion in a block cipher?
	> To ensure that small changes in the plaintext ripple out and effect the entire ciphertext.
	- To dissipate the statistical structure of the plaintext over the bulk of the ciphertext, making the relationship
	  between them more complex.



What is the primary goal of confusion in a block cipher?
	> To ensure that small changes in the plaintext ripple out and effect the entire ciphertext.
	- To make the relationship between the ciphertext and encryption key as complex and involved as possible.



What is the difference between a stream cipher and a block cipher?
	> I have no idea.
	- A stream cipher encrypts one bit or byte at a time, while a block cipher encrypts a fixed-size block of data as
	  a whole.



What does the Strict Avalanche Criterion (SAC) require for a cryptographic function?
	> To ensure that small changes in the plaintext ripple out and effect the entire ciphertext.
	- It requires that if a single input but is changed, each of the output bits should change with a probability
	  of one half. 



What does the Bit Independence Criterion (BIC) state?
	> The value of each output bit should be wholly independent from each other output bit.
	- It states that output bits J and K should change independently when any single input bit I is inverted.



Describe the basic structure of a Feistel Cipher?
	> I have no idea.
	- It processes plaintext in blocks, splitting each block into two halves, and applying a round function to one.
	  It then XORs the result with the other half, and swaps the halves over several rounds.



What is a key advantage of the Feistel cipher structure regarding decryption?
	> I have no idea.
	> The encryption and decryption processes are very similar, requiring only the reversal of the subkey schedule.



In the Cipher Block Chaining (CBC) mode of operation, how is each plaintext block processed before encryption?
	> I have no idea.
	- Each plaintext block is XORed with the ciphertext of the preceding block before being encrypted.



How does the Cipher Block Chaining (CBC) handle the first block of plaintext?
	> I don't know.
	- The first plaintext block is XORed with a random data block called an Initialization Vector (IV).



In public-key cryptography, what is achieved when Bob encrypts a message with Alice's public key?
	> Confidentiality or Secrecy. Only Alice can decrypt it with her private key.
	- Confidentiality is achieved, as only Alice, with her corresponding private key, can decrypt the message.



In public-key cryptography, what is achieved when Bob encrypts a message with his own private key?
	> Authentication, as only Bob could have encrypted the message with his own private key.
	- Authentication (and integrity) is achieved, as anyone can use Bob's public key to decrypt it, proving the
	  message came from Bob.



How can both confidentiality and authentication be achieved using public-key cryptography?
	> Bob encrypts the message with Alice's public key, and then his own private key. This way, Alice can decrypt
	  the first part with Bob's public key, proving it came from him. Then she can use her own private key, meaning
	  only she can read the message.
	- The sender first encrypts the message with their own private key (for authentication) and then encrypts the
	  result with the recipient's public key (for confidentiality).



What is the purpose of the AddRoundKey transformation in AES?
	> It encrypts the message with the current round's key.
	- It XORs the current state matrix with a round key derived from the main cipher key.



What does the ShiftRows transformation in AES do?
	> It alters the order of the rows in the state matrix to add diffusion.
	- It cyclically shifts the bytes in the last three rows of the state matrix by different offsets.



What is the function of the SubBytes transformation in AES?
	> It substitutes the bytes in the state matrix with corresponding ones from the pre-defined S-Box matrix.
	- It performs a non-linear byte-for-byte substitution on each byte of the state matrix using a lookup table
	  called an S-Box.



What is the fundamental difference between a True Random Number Generator (TRNG) and Pseudorandom Number Generator (PRNG)?
	> The PRNG is not truly random, and has some underlying pattern or predictable influence.
	- A TRNG uses an unpredictable source like electronic noise as input, while a PRNG uses a deterministic algorithm
	  and a seed to produce numbers that appear random.



The Blum Blum Shub (BSS) generator is based on the computational difficulty of what mathematical problem?
	> Factorisation of large numbers.
	- It is based on the difficulty of factoring large integers, specifically the quadratic residuality problem.



What is a brute-force attack on an encryption algorithm?
	> An attack that involves attempting to use every possible permutation of an encryption key until a legible output
	  is achieved.
	- It involves systematically trying every possible key until an intelligible translation of the ciphertext into
	  plaintext is found.



What are the five essential ingredients of a symmetric cipher?
	> No clue.
	- Plaintext, encryption algorithm, secret key, ciphertext, decryption algorithm.



What is steganography?
	> Steganography is the practice of hiding information inside another format. For example, it can be used to hide
	  text files within images.
	- A technique used to conceal of the existence of a message or data within another, non-secret file or
	  communication.



What is the core mathematical operation used in the Hill Cipher?
	> Matrix multiplication.
	- It uses matrix multiplication to encrypt blocks of plaintext letters.



How does the Playfair cipher differ from simple substitution ciphers?
	> No idea.
	- It encrypts pairs of letters (digrams) at a time, instead of single letters, using a 5x5 key matrix.



List three requirements that a public-key cryptosystem must fulfil to be secure.
	> Authentication, Confidentiality, Integrity.
	- It must be computationally easy for a party to generate a key pair, easy for a sender to encrypt, easy for
	  the receiver to decrypt, and computationally infeasible for an adversary to determine the private key from
	  the public key or to recover the original message from the ciphertext.



What does Fermat's Little Theorem state?
	> Do not remember.
	- If "p" is a prime number, then for any integer "a", the number (a^p - a) is an integer multiple of "p".



What is the purpose of the Euclidean algorithm in cryptography?
	> It is used to find the greatest common divisor of two numbers.
	- It is an efficient method of computing the greatest common divisor (GCD) of two integers.



What does Euler's Totient Theorem state?
	> No clue.
	- It states that if "a" and "n" are relatively prime positive integers, then a^ϕ(n)≡1(modn),
	  where ϕ(n) is Euler's totient function. (a^(totient function(n)) is congruent with 1 mod(n)).



What is the primary vulnerability of Double DES?
	> Meet in the middle attacks.
	- It is susceptible to a meet-in-the-middle attack, which reduces its effective key strength far below the
	  combined strength of the two keys.



How does a meet-in-the-middle attack work against Double DES?
	> Don't remember.
	- An attacker encrypts a known plaintext with all possible first keys, decrypts the corresponding ciphertext
	  with all possible second keys, and looks for a match in the intermediate results.



How does Triple DES (3DES) with two keys (EDE mode) work?
	> No idea.
	- It performs an Encryption with the first key, followed by a Decryption with the second key, and finally another
	  Encryption with the first key (Encrypt-Decrept-Encrypt).



What is the main characteristic of the Output Feedback (OFB) mode of operation?
	> It provides feedback on the output, or feedback as an output.
	- It operates like a stream cipher by generating a keystream from the Initialization Vector and the key,
	  which is then XORed with the plaintext blocks; the ciphertext is not fed back into the process.



What is modular arithmetic?
	> Modular arithmetic is arithmetic performed within the bounds of a modulus, a number which cannot be exceeded
	  by the results of operations. Instead, the result loops back around and starts with zero.
	- It is a system of arithmetic for integers, where numbers "wrap around" upon reaching a certain value,
	  known as the modulus.



What is the function of the initial permutation (IP) in the DES algorithm?
	> I don't know.
	- It rearranges the bits of the 64-bit input plaintext block according to a predefined table before the first
	  round of processing.



What were rotor machines, such as the Enigma machine, used for?
	> They were used in early cryptography, as a way to break advanced ciphers.
	- They were sophisticated electromechanical stream ciphers used for encrypting and decrypting secret messages
	  before and during World War II.



What are the three broad categories of applications for public-key cryptosystems?
	> No idea.
	- Encryption/decryption (providing confidentiality), digital signatures (providing authentication), and
	  key exchange (to securely establish session keys).



What is the purpose of the Miller-Rabin algorithm?
	> It is used as a primality test, to predict the primality of large numbers.
	- It is a probabilistic primality test used to determine if a given large number is likely to be prime, which
	  is crucial for generating RSA keys.



According to the OSI Security Architecture, what is a "security attack"?
	> Couldn't possibly say.
	- Any action that compromises the security of information owned by an organization.



According to the OSI Security Architecture, what is a "security mechanism"?
	> Any mechanism that helps to prevent, slow, or otherwise hamper security attacks.
	- A process or device designed to detect, prevent, or recover from a security attack.



According to OSI Security Architecture, what is a "security service"?
	> A service that makes the information owned by an organization more secure.
	- A service that enhances the security of data processing systems and information transfers, intended to counter
	  security attacks.



The security service that assures a communication is authentic and that the claimed source is genuine is known as ____ ?
	> Authentication.
	- Authentication.



What is the "Access Control" security service?
	> Authorization.
	- It is the ability to limit and control access to host systems and applications via communications links.



The security service that protects against denial by either the sender or receiver of a transmitted message is called __ ?
	> Time-outs.
	- Nonrepudation.



What is a "threat" in the context of any network security?
	> Any agent or element that may affect system resources or information negatively.
	- A potential for violation of security, which exists when there is a circumstance that could breach security
	  and cause harm.



What is the purpose of the security mechanism known as "Traffic Padding"?
	> Traffic is padded with extra unnecessary content in order to prevent patterns from being observed in the
	  flow of communications, which could be used to learn confidential information.
	- It involves inserting bits into gaps in the data stream to frustrate traffic analysis attempts by masking the
	  true volume of traffic.



What does the "Notarization" security mechanism involve?
	> Trusted parties can verify the contents or sender of a message.
	- It involves the use of a trusted third party to assure certain properties of a data exchange, such as integrity,
	  origin, or time.



A security mechanism not specific to any particular OSI service or protocol layer is called a ____ security mechanism.
	> General.
	- Pervasive.



In the context of pervasive security mechanisms, what is "Trusted Functionality"?
	> When certain mechanisms are trusted to be functional.
	- It is functionality that is perceived to be correct with respect to some criteria, such as being established
	  by a security policy.



What is a "Security Audit Trail"?
	> It is a trail left behind to ensure that security interactions are valid and can be tracked.
	- Data collected and potentially used to facilitate a security audit, which is an independent review and
	  examination of system records and activities.






