Advanced Security
-------------------------------------

Cryptography and network security.

60% exam to 40% CA ratio.

Two CAs, one in week 6 (10%) and one in week 12 (10%).

There will be two assignments:
	> Cryptographic Tools (10%) - Week 5
	> Algorithms Implementation (10%) - Week 11

Module content will include:
	> Number theory, discrete logs, elliptic curves.
	> Stenography.
	> Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption.
	> Mutual trust.
	> Cryptography.

Cryptographic algorithms and protocols can be grouped into four main areas:
	> Symmetric Encryption - Used to conceal the contents of blocks or streams of data.
	> Asymmetric Encryption - Used to conceal small blocks of data such as encryption keys and hash function values.
	> Data Integrity Algorithms - Used to protect blocks of data from alteration.
	> Authentication Protocols - Use of cryptographic algorithms designed to authenticate the identity of enemies.

The field of network and internet security consists of measures to deter, prevent, detect, and correct security violations
that involve the transmission of information.

The NIST Computer Security Handbook defines the term "computer security" as  "the protection afforded to an automated
information system in order to attain the applicable objectives of preserving the integrity, availability, and
confidentiality of system resources".


Confidentiality
	> Data Confidentiality
		- Assures that private or confidential info is not made available or disclosed to unauthorized individuals.
	> Privacy
		- Assures that individuals control what info related to them may be collected and stored, and by whom.

Integrity
	> Data Integrity
		- Assures that info and programs are changed only in a specified and authorized manner.
	> System Integrity
		- Assures that a system performs its intended function unimpaired, free of unauthorized manipulation.

Availability
	> Assures that systems work promptly and service is not denied to authorized users.


These three form the CIA triad. Possible additional concepts to consider are Authenticity and Accountability.

There are three levels of security breach impact:
	> Low - The loss could be expected to have a limited adverse affect on the organization, assets, and individuals.
	> Moderate - The loss could be expected to have a serious affect on the organization, assets, and individuals.
	> High - The loss could be expected to have a severe or catastrophic adverse affect.

Security is not simple. Potential attacks on any security features must be considered.

It is necessary to decide where to use the various security mechanisms, and requires constant monitoring.

Security mechanisms typically involve more than a particular algorithm or protocol. Security is essentially a battle of wits
between a perpetrator and the designer.

Little benefit from security investment is perceived until a security failure occurs.

Strong security is often viewed as an impediment to efficient and user-friendly operation.

Security Attack
	> Any action that compromises the security of the information owned by an organization.

Security Mechanism
	> A process or device incorporating one, which is designed to detect, prevent, or recover from, a security attack.

Security Service
	> A processing or comms service that enhances security of processing systems and info transfers.
	> Intended to counter security attacks, and make use of one or more security mechanisms to provide the service.

A THREAT is a potential violation of security, which exists when there is a circumstance, capability, action, or event, that could breach security and cause harm. That is, a threat is a possible danger that might exploit a vulnerability.

An ATTACK is an assault on system security that derives from an intelligent threat, that is, an intelligent act that is
a deliberate attempt to evade security services and override the security policy of a system.

Security attacks are often defined as Active or Passive attacks.

A Passive Attack attempts to learn or make use of information from the system, but does not affect system resources.

An Active Attack attempts to alter system resources or affect their operation.

Passive Attacks are in the nature of eavesdropping on, or otherwise monitoring, transmissions.

The goal of the enemy here is to obtain information in transit. This can be for the release of message contents, or
for traffic analysis.

Active Attacks involve some modification of the data stream, or the creation of a false stream.

They are difficult to prevent because of the wide variety of physical, software, and network vulnerabilities.

The goal is to detect these attacks and recover from any delay or disruption caused by them.

Types of Active Attack include:
	> Masquerade - An entity pretends to be another entity, often involves one of the other types.
	> Replay - Involves passive capture of data unit and retransmission to cause unauthorized effect.
	> Modification of Message - Change of some portion of a legitimate message, or delays or reorders.
	> Denial of Service - Prevents or inhibits the normal use or management of comms facilities.

A security service is a service provided by a protocol layer of communicating open systems that ensures adequate security
of the systems or of data transfers.

It is a processing or communication service provided by a system to give a specific kind of protection to system
resources.

Service categories include:
	> Authentication
	> Access Control
	> Data Confidentiality
	> Data Integrity
	> Nonrepudiation

Authentication is concerned with assuring that communication is authentic. In the case of a single message, it assures the
recipient that the message is from who it claims to be from.

In an ongoing interaction, it assures the two entities are authentic, and the connection is not tampered with such to
allow a third party to masquerade as one of the two legitimate ones.

Access control is the ability to limit and control the access to host systems and applications via communications links.

To achieve this, each entity trying to gain access must first be identified, or authenticated, so that access rights can be tailored to the individual.

Data confidentiality is the protection of transmitted data from passive attacks. The broadest service protects all user
data transmitted between two users over a period of time.

Narrower forms include the protection of a single message, or even specific fields within one.

Data confidentiality also concerns the protection of traffic flow from analysis.

This requires that an attacker not be able to observe the source and destination, frequency, length, or other traits
of traffic on a communications facility.

Data integrity can apply to a stream of messages, a single message, or selected fields within a message.

It is a connection-oriented service, one that deals with a stream of messages, assures that messages are received as sent,
with no duplication, insertion, modification, reordering, or replays.

A connectionless integrity service, which deals with individual messages without any regard to larger context, generally
provides protection against message modification only.

Nonrepudiation prevents either the sender or receiver from declining a transmitted message.

When a message is sent, the receiver can prove that the alleged sender sent the message.

When a message is received, the sender can prove that the alleged receiver did actually received the message..


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      