Classic Encryption Techniques
---------------------------------

Symmetric encryption, or single-key encryption, was the only type in use prior to the development of public-key
encryption in the 1970s.

It remains by far the most widely used of the two types of encryption.

Plaintext is the original message, and ciphertext is the coded message.

Enciphering or encryption is the process of converting from plaintext to ciphertext.

Deciphering or decryption is the restoration of the plaintext from the ciphertext.

Cryptography is the study of encryption.

Cryptographic systems or ciphers are the schemes use for encryption.

Cryptanalysis describes the techniques used for deciphering a message without any knowledge of the enciphering details.

Cryptology describes the areas of cryptography and cryptanalysis together.

A simplified model of symmetric encryption is as follows:
	> Billy uses the secret key shared by himself and Bobby to encipher some information.
	> The ciphertext is transmitted.
	> Bobby uses the deciphering algorithm with their shared key to get the plaintext.

A cryptanalyst who wants the information the Billy is transmitting may acquire the ciphertext and attempt to decode it.

Cryptographic systems are characterized along three independent dimensions:
	> The type of operations used for transforming plaintext to ciphertext.
		- Substitution
		- Transposition

	> The number of keys used.
		- Symmetric, single-key, secret-key, conventional.
		- Asymmetric, two-key, or public-key encryption.

	> The way in which the plaintext is processed.
		- Block cipher.
		- Stream cipher.

Cryptanalysis relies on the nature of the algorithm plus some knowledge of the general characteristics of the plaintext.

This kind of attack exploits the characteristics of the algorithm to attempt to deduce a specific plaintext or to deduce
the key being used.

Attacker tries every possible key on a piece of ciphertext until an intelligible translation into plaintext is obtained.

On average, half of all possible keys must be tried to achieve success.

Here are some types of attack, and the information known to the cryptanalyst in each one.
	> Ciphertext Only
		- Encryption algorithm.
		- Ciphertext.

	> Known Plaintext
		- Encryption algorithm.
		- Ciphertext.
		- One or more plaintext-ciphertext pairs formed with the key.

	> Chosen Plaintext
		- Encryption algorithm.
		- Ciphertext.
		- Plaintext message chosen by cryptanalyst, along with corresponding ciphertext.

	> Chosen Ciphertext
		- Encryption algorithm.
		- Ciphertext.
		- Ciphertext chosen by cryptanalyst, together with its corresponding decrypted plaintext.

	> Chosen Text
		- Encryption algorithm.
		- Ciphertext.
		- Plaintext message chosen by cryptanalyst, together with its corresponding ciphertext.
		- Ciphertext chosen by cryptanalyst, together with its corresponding plaintext.

There are two types of "secure" that we can say a scheme is.

Unconditionally secure is when, no matter how much time an opponent has, it is impossible for them to decrypt the
ciphertext simply because the required information is not there.

Computationally secure means that the cost of breaking the cipher exceeds the value of the encrypted information.

Alternatively, the time required to break the cipher exceeds the useful lifetime of the information
	
A brute-force attack involves trying every possible key until an intelligible translation of the ciphertext
into plaintext is produced.

On average, half of all possible keys must be tried to achieve success.

To supplement the brute-force approach, some degree of knowledge about the expected plaintext is needed, and some
means of automatically distinguishing plaintext from garble is also needed.

A substitution technique is one in which letters of the plaintext are replaced by other letters, numbers, or
symbols.

If the plaintext is viewed as a sequence of bits, then substitution involves replacing plaintext bit patterns
with ciphertext bit patterns.

The simplest and earliest form of substitution cipher is the Ceaser cipher, named for Julius Ceaser.

it involves replacing each letter of the alphabet with the letter standing a number of places down the alphabet
from it, with that number being the key.

If each letter is given a number from 0 to 25, then the algorithm can be expressed as (p + x) % 26, where "p" is the
character in the plaintext, and "x" is the key number we're shifting it by.

We use a modulo of 26 at the end to ensure that the number for our new letter remains between 0 and 25.

A monoalphabetic cipher involves permutation, meaning a finite set of elements "S", which is an ordered sequence of
all of the elements of "S" with each element appearing exactly once.

If the "cipher" line can be any permutation of the 26 alphabetic characters, then there are 26! or 4x10^26 possible
keys.

This is 10 orders of magnitude greater than the key space for Data Encryption Standard.

This approach is referred to as a monoalphabetic substitution cipher, because a single cipher alphabet is used
per message.

Monoalphabetic ciphers are easy to break due to letter frequency - even if the letters are moved around, they
still reflect the frequency of the original alphabet.

For example, "E" is the most common letter of the alphabet. This means that we could look at a message and deduce that
whichever letter is most common might correspond to "E".

The countermeasure for this is to provide multiple substitutes for a single letter.
	> Digram
		- Two-letter combination.
		- Most common is "th".

	> Trigram
		- Three-letter combination.
		- Most frequent is "the".

The Playfair cipher is one of the best-known multiple-letter encryption ciphers.

It treats digrams in the plaintext as single units, and translates them into ciphertext digrams.

it is based on the used of a 5x5 matrix of letters, constructed using a keyword.

it was invented by a British scientist, Sir Charles Wheatstone, in 1854.

It was used as the standard field system by the British army in WW1, and the U.S. army and other allied forces in WW2.

In order to get the key matrix, we set up a 5x5 grid. We fill it with the letters of the keyword, left to right, top to
bottom, and then fill in the rest of the matrix with the remaining letters of the alphabet in order.

	M  O  N  A   R
	C  H  Y  B   D
	E  F  G  I/J K
	L  P  Q  S   T
	U  V  W  X   Z

The above matrix shows this carried out with the keyword "Monarchy".

The Hill cipher was developed by the mathematician Lester Hill in 1929. Its strength is that it completely hides single
letter frequencies. The use of a larger matrix hides more frequency information.

A 3x3 cipher hides not only single-letter but also two-letter frequency information.

This is strong against a ciphertext-only attack but easily broken with a known-plaintext attack.

The way it works is as follows:
	> The plaintext is split into vectors with a length equal to the dimension of the matrix.
	> For example, with a 3x3 matrix, the plaintext is split into 3x1 vectors.
	> Each vector is multiplied against the matrix, and is then recombined into ciphertext.

Polyalphabetic substitution ciphers improve on the simple monoalphabetic technique by using different monoalphabetic
substitutions as one proceeds through the plaintext message.

All these techniques have the following features in common:
	> A set of related monoalphabetic substitution rules is used.
	> A key determines which particular rule is chosen for a given transformation.

The Vigenère Cipher is one of the best known and simplest polyalphabetic substitution ciphers.

In this scheme, the set of related monoalphabetic substitution rules consists of the 26 Ceaser ciphers, with shifts of
0 through 25.

Each cipher is denoted by a key letter which is the ciphertext letter that substitutes for the plaintext letter.

To encrypt a message with this technique, a key is needed that is as long as the message.

Usually the key is a repeating keyword.

For example, if the keyword is "allmight" and the message is "go beyond plus ultra", it is encrypted as:
	> Key: allmightallmighta
	> Plaintext: gobeyondplusultra
	> Ciphertext: gzmqguuwpwfecraka

With the Vigenère autokey system, a keyword is concatenated with the plaintext itself to provide a running key.

Even this scheme is vulnerable to cryptanalysis, because the key and plaintext share the same frequency distribution
of letters, so a statistical technique can be applied.

The One-Time Pad is an improvement to the Vernam cipher proposed by a Signal Corp officer, Joseph Mauborgne.

You use a random key that is as long as the message, so that the key is not repeated.

The key is used to encrypt and decrypt a single message, and then discarded.

This scheme is unbreakable as it produces an output with no statistical relationship to the plaintext.

Because the ciphertext contains zero information about the plaintext, there is no way to break the code.

This technique also offers difficulties and complexities in the difficulty of making large quantities of random keys.

It is, as such, used primarily for low-bandwidth channels that require top security.

The Rail Fence cipher is the simplest transposition cipher. Plaintext is written down as a sequence of diagonals and then
read off as a sequence of rows.

	 mematrhtgpry
	etefeteoaat

The above example is done by starting on the top row with "M", then down and to the left to write "E", and then
alternating.

The ciphertext we end up with from this is: "MEMATRHTGPRYETEFETEOAAT".

The row transposition cipher is a more complex transposition.

You write the message in a rectangle, row by row, and read the message off, column by column, permuting the order of
the columns.

In this case, the key to the cipher is the order of the columns. If I have 4, and rearrange them to the order
"3, 1, 4, 2" then the key to the cipher is 3142, and the ciphertext is "column 3 + column 1..." and so on.

Steganography is a technique used to hide data within an image or another file.

Other steganography techniques include:
	> Character Marking:
		- Selected characters of printed or typewritten text are overwritten in text.
		- The marks are ordinarily not visible unless the paper is held at an angle.

	> Invisible Ink:
		- A number of substances can be used for writing but leave no visible trace until heat or chemicals
		are applied to the paper.

	> Pin Punctures:
		- Small pin punctures on selected letters are ordinarily not visible unless the paper is held up under a 		  light.

	> Typewriter correction ribbon.










