Public Key Cryptography
-------------------------------------

Asymmetric keys are two related keys, public and private, which are used to perform complimentary operations, such as
encryption and decryption, or signature generation and signature verification.

A public key certificate is a digital document issued and virtually signed by the private key of a certification
authority, which binds the name of a subscriber to a public key.

The certificate indicates that the subscriber identified in the certificate has sole control and access to the corresponding
private key.

The Public Key (Asymmetric) Cryptographic Algorithm is a cryptographic algorithm that uses two related keys, a public
key and a private key.

The two keys have the property that deriving the private key from the public is computationally infeasible.

Public Key Infrastructure, or PKI, is a set of policies, processes, server platforms, software, and workstations used
for the purpose of administering certificates and public-private key pairs, including the ability to issue,
maintain, and revoke public key certificates.

The concept of public-key cryptography evolved from an attempt to attack two of the most difficult problems associated with
symmetric encryption.

The first is how to have secure communications in general without having to trust a KDC with your key.

The second is how to verify that a message comes intact from the claimed sender.

Whitfield Diffie and Martin Hellman from Stanford University achieved a breakthrough in 1976 by coming up with a method
that addressed both problems and was radically different from all previous approaches to cryptography.

A public-key encryption scheme has six ingredients:
	> Plaintext
	> Encryption algorithm
	> Public key
	> Private key
	> Ciphertext
	> Decryption algorithm

Bob, in transmitting a message to his friend Alice, can either encrypt with his own private key, to be decrypted with
his public key, or decrypt with Alice's public key, to be decrypted with her private key.

For this kind of encryption to work, one algorithm is used for encryption, and a related algorithm for decryption,
with a pair of keys, one for encryption and the other for decryption.

The sender and the receiver must each have one of the matched pair of keys.

For security, one of the two keys must be kept secret.

It must be impossible or at very least impractical to decipher a message if one of the keys is kept secret.

Knowledge of the algorithm plus one of the keys plus samples of ciphertext must be insufficient to determine the
other key.

Public-key cryptosystems can be classified into three categories.
	> Encryption/Decryption - Sender encrypts a message with recipient's public key.
	> Digital Signature - Sender "signs" message with their own private key.
	> Key Exchange - Two sides cooperate to exchange a session key.


Algorithm		Encryption/Decryption		Digital Signature		Key Exchange
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RSA			Yes				Yes				Yes
Elliptic Curve		Yes				Yes				Yes
Diffie-Hellman		No				No				Yes
DSS			No				Yes				No


These algorithms must fulfil the following conditions:
	> It is computationally easy for a party B to generate a pair (public-key PU[B], private key PR[B]).

	> It is computationally easy for a sender A, knowing the public key and the message to be encrypted,
	  to generate the corresponding ciphertext.

	> It is computationally easy for the receiver B to decrypt the resulting ciphertext using the private
	  key to recover the original message.

	> It is computationally infeasible for an adversary, knowing the public key, to determine the private key.

	> It is computationally infeasible for an adversary, knowing the public key and a ciphertext, to recover
	  the original message.

	> The two keys can be applied in either order.

In order to accomplish these requirements, we need a trap-door one-way function.

A one-way function is one that maps a domain into a range such that every function value has a unique inverse, with
the condition that the calculation of the function is easy, whereas the calculation of the inverse is infeasible.

A trap-door one-way function is a unique family of invertible functions Fk, such that:
	> Y = Fk(X) is easy, if k and X are known.
	> X = Fk⁻¹(Y) is easy, if k and Y are known.
	> X = Fk⁻¹(Y) is infeasible, if Y is known and k is not.

A practical public-key scheme depends on a suitable trapdoor function.

A public-key encryption scheme is vulnerable to a brute-force attack. The countermeasure to this is to use large keys.

Key size must be small enough for practical encryption and decryption.

Key sizes that have been proposed result in speeds that are too slow for general-purpose use.

Public-key encryption is currently confined to key management and signature applications.

Another form of attack is to find some way to compute the private key given the public.

To date is has not been mathematically proven that this form of attack is infeasible.

The Rivest Shamir Adleman scheme was developed in 1977 at MIT by Ron Rivest, Adi Shamir, and Len Adleman.

It is most widely used as a general-purpose approach to public-key encryption.


