FYP Intro Notes
------------------------

ciaran.odriscoll@tudublin.ie

Email him with the heading FYP plus our name + student number, to be added to the OneDrive.

We are expected to do around 20 hours a week worth of work on this project.

Our degree award mark is based on our year 4 mark.

The project is worth 33% of our final year mark, meaning it's also worth 33% of our degree award.

A project is:
	> An individual piece of work.
	> Includes documentation.
	> Delivery and architecture of a system.
	> Significant body of work.
	> Presented at the project fair.

By week 10 or 11 we need to have a working prototype and an interim report.

Zotero is a research assistant tool recommended for the report.

All websites and resources used should be tracked and logged for a bibliography.

Grading is done by a "second reader" initially, which will be discussed with the supervisor.

The final grading is done by the second reader, supervisor, and a monitor that adjusts scaling.

The supervisor is not necessarily an expert in the technology being used, but lecturers who are experts can be queried.

Documentation and clear presentation of ideas are one of the most important aspects.

We do not copy things! We get "inspired" by the things other people do.

A different and interesting idea carries some weight.

Our project needs to be more "design and analyse" than "build and test".

This is the link to a library of previous projects to take some inspiration from:
	> www.tudublin.ie/library/cc/search-resources/dissertations-theses/

We need to have a weekly log of work carried out and meetings held.

This keeps track of what was delivered for a given week and what needs to be completed for the next week.

This should be a high-level overview of what was completed, not super in-depth.

There is a budget for specialized equipment, and there is equipment in stock.

An equipment request needs to be filled out, signed by a lecturer and submitted to the school office.

AI involvement in the project will be assessed on a traffic light system, wherein red is "no AI" and green is "full AI",
with a few shades in the middle.

All AI prompts used as part of the project must be tracked and included as part of an appendix.




















