Forensics 2023-24 Paper
--------------------------

Q1. a) Locard's Exchange Principle states that contact between two items results in an exchange. This is an important
consideration for digital forensics for a number of reasons. First, any interaction with a computer leaves a trace.
Anyone logging into a system might have their activities tracked by a system log, for example. This also applies to
handling of evidence though, as any digital traces are vulnerable to contamination via the same principle. For example,
even the smallest and most innocuous interaction with a file could change the metadata, potentially rendering evidence
forensically un-sound.

Q1. b) A digital forensics professional specifically is involved in investigations into computer-related incidents, and
would be only one part of a CIRT. The role of a CIRT is to detect and respond to computer-related incidents and threats,
using the combined expertise of a variety of professionals, such as PR and HR people, legal experts, technical staff,
management, and more. A CIRT should have a process or procedure for responding to these events, which should lay out the
appropriate steps that must be taken. A digital forensics professional would only be part of this team, and would be
responsible for providing specific domain knowledge and security, as well as conducting an investigation into the incident.

Q1. c) This specific part of the bill permits anyone acting to carry out a search warrant, such as a Garda participating
in an investigation, to require passwords or encryption keys from parties under investigation. These passwords must be
provided in a visible and legible manner, such that the investigator can read and use them. Without powers like these,
investigators might find themselves unable to access devices that carry relevant evidence for an investigation in a
reasonable and timely manner. Additionally, many devices nowadays will factory reset or lock themselves after a number
of failed password guesses, which could destroy evidence.

Q1. d) This technique allows a user to perform an internet search using an image rather than a keyword or phrase.
Investigators can use services like Google Image Search or Yandex to find the original source of an image file.
Forensically, it can be used to assess whether a subject likely took or created an image or photo themselves, or whether
they found it online somewhere. This can be useful in catfishing cases, or other social media related investigations,
as investigators can determine if an individual got their profile photo from online somewhere.



Q2. a) Validation done by hashing.

Q2. b) RAM, network cache, hard drives, archival media.

Q2. c) True state, running processes, network info.



Q3. a) An MFT record is the primary database for NTFS, where every file and folder has a record. It starts with the
signature "FILE", and contains standard info, filenames, and data attributes. A resident file is one whose data is small
enough to be stored directly inside the MFT record. A non-resident file is one which is too large, and is stored in clusters
or data runs elsewhere.