Forensics 2022-23 Paper
--------------------------------
Q1. a) Part of the information that can be recovered from a mobile phone as forensic evidence is the list of Base
Transceiver Stations, or mobile towers, that the phone has connected to recently. This information can be used to
determine the location of a suspect at a particular time. As with all other forms of digital forensic evidence, we
need to make sure that this data is not changed or updated as result of our investigation. Thus, the faraday bag is
needed to ensure the phone does not connect to any new BT stations in transport.

Q1. b) A CIRT is a team of individuals with relevant areas of expertise and experience to allow them to respond to
an incidence of cyber crime, or other computer related mishap. This includes professionals such as technical staff, legal
experts, public relations professionals, human resources, management, and more. The CIRT should have a process or procedure
for responding to events, that outlines the steps that must be taken to react properly to an incident. A digital forensics
professional can offer specific domain knowledge to such a team, providing computer security, knowledge of attacks
and exploits, and triaging the incident. They can also recommend a specific course of action to rectify the incident,
and conduct a post-resolution forensic investigation.

Q1. c) EXIF stands for Exchangeable Image File Format. It's a metadata standard that stores information about a digital
image or media file, embedded into the file itself. It is supported by many major camera manufacturers, and can store
a wide variety of information, such as camera settings (like make, model, lens), image metrics (like pixel dimensions,
resolution, colourspace), date and time info, location info, a thumbnail, description, and copyright.

Q1. d) OSINT was created to offer a central location to find tools that can be used to gather intel and reconnaissance
as part of cybersecurity research. It is a cybersecurity intel gathering tool. There are no shortages of free tools that
can be used to gather public data, and OSINT is a collection of tools to make intel and data collection tasks easier.
A digital forensics investigator can use OSINT to gather intelligence, and answer specific questions. Such questions
include whether, based on usernames, a particular user is active on other platforms, for example. Other examples include
reverse image lookups, the use of Google Search Operators to avoid or match specific conditions, and the use of specialty
browsers like Tor or Shodan.




Q2. a) Without the correct passwords and encryption keys, it would prove very difficult, or impossible, to get access
to a device within a reasonable time frame. Many mobile devices are programmed to reset to factory settings, or to entirely
lock access, after a certain number of incorrect password entry attempts. This could prove disastrous to an investigation,
as key evidence and information could be rendered inaccessible, or inadmissible in court.

Q2. b) When we say that a computer is storing a file, we mean two things. Firstly, there is an area in memory in which
the ones and zeros are arranged to make up that data, and secondly, that the computer has reserved that area in memory for
that data, so that it won't be overwritten. When we delete a file, the computer simply stops reserving that area, but the
ones and zeros are still there. Files of specific types start and end with specific, recognizable patterns, dependent on
the file type. With this information, an investigator can search for these patterns in the unreserved, or unallocated,
memory on the computer. If they find a section of memory that starts and ends with the correct patterns for a specific kind
of file, they can save that area using a hex editor and open it as a file.

Q2. c) Autopsy is a digital forensics platform that offers a wide variety of different tools and programs for use in
digital forensic investigations. It can read and open a disk image for analysis, and automatically carve deleted files
and display their contents, as well as flagging encrypted or corrupted files, showing file metadata, easily displaying
the contents of database files, parsing emails, and more. Autopsy uses a system of "ingest modules" which allows a user
to select, upon opening a disk image, which tasks and tools they would like to have run on the data. The user can then
view the data that was on the image, as well as the results of Autopsy's analysis.




Q3. a) The order of volatility describes how some types of digital forensic evidence are considered more or less volatile
than others. Essentially, some evidence is more likely to be subject to frequent or rapid changes, or to being lost
entirely. Evidence like this should be prioritized, while evidence that is not likely to change or degrade on its own
should be left until later. The classic order of volatility is
	> CPU registers, cache
	> RAM and running processes
	> Network connections and routing tables
	> Disk data and file systems
	> Logs and remote monitoring data
	> Archival media (e.g. backups)
Crucial evidence could be accessed from some of the most volatile of these, like the RAM or the cache, such as timestamps
and metadata, snippets of content like HTML pages, images, videos or other files, user information, and currently running
program data.

Q3. b) When working with a computer, the majority of data must be in its real form when it resides in memory. This is not
always true, especially due to memory encryption techniques, but most things will be in their true form. This offers the
perfect opportunity to analyse what we find in memory, and make sense of the operations and content. For example, something
like malware will reside in its true form in memory, meaning that we can use a RAM capture or memory dump to get a clearer
picture of it and analyse its operations. Additionally, the RAM capture will also include a list of currently running
processes in memory, as well as the process ID and name. We can use this list to figure out which processes might be
hijacked by malware, or even to determine what a suspect was doing on a computer at the time. Additionally, key pieces
of data such as passwords or encryption keys may be stored in plaintext in memory, allowing investigators to make use
of that information.

Q3. c) The steps associated with the basic digital forensics model are Assess, Acquire, Analyse, and Report. The first
step, assess, involves figuring out what kind of investigation is occurring, and within that task identifying roles,
applicable laws and policies, and evidence. It then determines whether the case is internal, civil, or criminal, and
the authority required depending on that, as well as whether the investigation will require written permissions, a
subpoena, or a warrant. Next, acquire, is the process of actually collecting evidence. The necessary tools are identified,
the data is collected, and forensic and archival copies are created. Thirdly, the analyse step involves analysis of
data collected. This includes live, network, and static data. Finally, in the report stage, the evidence that was analysed
is collected, prepared, and presented in a comprehensive report.






