EXIF Metadata and Steganography
----------------------------

EXIF stands for Exchangeable Image File Format.

It's a metadata standards that stores information about a digital image or media file, usually embedded directly into
the file itself.

EXIF is supported by almost all camera manufacturers.

When you take a photo with a digital camera or a smartphone, the device automatically records details about the picture,
this being the EXIT metadata.

The metadata tags defined in the EXIF standard cover a wide range:
	> Camera settings (camera model and make, lens, shutter speed, etc.)
	> Image metrics (Pixel dimensions, resolution, colour space, and file size)
	> Date and time information
	> Location information
	> A thumbnail for previewing the picture
	> Description (text)
	> Copyright info

This data as forensic importance, as it can help us to identify the device used to take a photo (link suspect's phone
to photos).

It can help reconstruct events through timestamps and GPS tags, and to detect tempering via metadata inconsistencies.

It also helps with the chain of evidence, proving authenticity if the metadata aligns with logs.

Information that can be useful to a forensic investigation:
	> Camera make and model
	> Device name
	> Time when picture was taken
	> GPS coordinates describing where the picture was taken
	> Serial number of the device that took the image
	> Name of the person who took the image

EXIF data is the information available to the device when the picture was taken.

Some EXIF data features can be turned off.

When files are uploaded to web platforms, the EXIF metadata can be removed.

For a forensic investigation it is always good to find pictures relating to the case.

It will be important to determine where, when, and with what device, the photos were taken.

Steganography is the technique of concealing a message within another message or a physical object.

Steghide is a steganography program that is able to hide data in various kinds of image and audio files.

The colour-respectively sample-frequencies are not changed, thus making the embedding resistant against first-order
statistical tests.

Essentially, steganography can be used to hide data within an image. This can be used to embed a simple string, or
as much as a PDF or word document.







