Incident Response and Digital Evidence
-------------------------------------------

Digital evidence is present in most types of crime nowadays.

Types of crimes can fall into the following categories:
	> Cybercrime
	> Cyber-aided Crime
	> Crimes with Digital Evidence

Cybercrime is defined as when a computer is used to perform a crime against another computer or system.

For example, this could be hacking, malware attacks, or DDOS extortion.

These types of crimes are usually performed by knowledgeable persons.

For cybercrime, this means the opportunity and knowledge would involve specialized use of tools and knowledge
of IT / Systems / Programming, etc.

This can be important in an investigation when trying to identify suspects, and the skills needed to perform a
transgression should match the suspect's profile.

Cyber-aided crime, or cyber-enabled crime, is when a traditional crime is facilitated by technology.

This can include theft, fraud, or even terrorism.

These crimes and offences have been around a long time, and criminals do not need to be computer experts to use these
tools.

Crimes with digital evidence are any crimes where a forensic investigator can look for, and expect to find, digital
evidence.

In the past, maybe two people would meet on a street corner and exchange drugs and money. This kind of exchange leaves
little evidence.

Now, such an exchange might occur over a social platform, or email. This leaves far more evidence. It is difficult
in modern society not to leave a digital footprint.

Incident response involves managing incidents in an IT environment.

This process is not particular to digital forensics, but it is important to follow process and procedure.

Stuxnet was a malware that targeted specific controllers, made by Siemens, in an Iranian uranium enrichment plant.

It was spread via USB keys. It infected local networks and contained a very specific payload to manipulate the controllers.

The code lay dormant for a long time, and was triggered under specific conditions. This attack was clearly targeted
and premeditated.

Another example is WannaCry, a ransomware that infected approximately 200,000 machines. It encrypted the data on
computers and demanded payment to get the data back.

An attack like this was not specifically targeted, but aimed to hit as many devices as possible.

When an incident occurs for an organization, it can be a very stressful situation to find the cause and offer a solution
to remedy the problem.

For example, the company MAERSK was hit with the Not Petya ransomware, and were forced to fully reinstall around 9000
computers.

This lead to them suffering a large financial loss for the downtime.

For a situation like this, it is very important to very carefully prepare a solution.

Organizations should have a CIRT, or Computer Incident Response Team.

They need to develop policies and procedures, and their goal will be to know exactly what to do and when to do it.

A CIRT needs a number of roles present:
	> Technical Staff
	> Legal Expertise
	> Public Affairs
	> HR
	> Management

Developing policies and procedures may contain several steps.

These will give the CIRT team a roadmap to better manage the situation.

The document should outline how to react to an incident.

Define the incident:
	> What has transpired and what type of event requires the activation of the CIRT?
	> Some incidents are general and should be handled by the IT team.
	> A DoS attack may require activation of CIRT.

List the members of the CIRT:
	> The document should have the names and contact info for each member.
	> The role each person will perform should also be documented.
	> Some people will need to provide ICE info.

Business continuity plan:
	> Determine a priority of incidents and functions.
	> Describe what the most important IT assets are.
	> The plan is trying to identify what can be sacrificed to protect more important assets.
	> What needs to be performed for certain incident types?

Communication plan:
	> Who to contact and when.
	> IT team members, Law enforcement, board of directors, media, etc.

When something happens, it must be dealt with in a structured way: Identify, Contain/Eradicate/Recover, Post-Incident.

To identify, we collect information, identify the nature of the incident (if any), evaluate and determine if CIRT
activation is warranted, gather info from users who experienced the incident.

Containing, eradicating, and recovering is meat of the incident management. You try to minimize the effect of the
incident, and resume standard operation ASAP.

For containment, you try to minimize infected devices. Eradication and recovery are the steps to try recover
from the incident.

During the post-incident, you document what happened, and security all evidence from the identification phase.

A report should be written, and you should determine what further IT or legal action is needed.

This also includes forensic examination of any material gathered in the identification phase.

Digital forensics offers specific domain knowledge for these processes.



